  Disclaimer: This is a beta pre-release. The full version will be released at a later date under the same url. Please monitor the GitHub repository for updates and releases.
The mission of the University of Belize Environmental Research Institute (UB-ERI) is to advance environmental science and support a culture of evidence-based decision-making relevant to sustainable development.
In support of this mission, one of our active projects is a long-term coral reef monitoring project at Turneffe Atoll Marine Reserve. This app is designed to showcase the data resulting from this project.
The project began in 2010 using the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Synoptic Monitoring Program (MBRS SMP), with sampling at the reef occurring every summer. In 2021 and 2023, further data were collected, using the Atlantic and Gulf Rapid Reef Assessment (AGRRA) protocols, in collaboration with the Healthy Reefs Initiative. These methods were very similar, and the shift was made as MBRS SMP was being phased out in Belize, and AGRRA was being introduced to the National Coral Reef Monitoring Network (NCRMN).
Coral reefs are major centres of biodiversity in Belize. They host many diverse marine species and provide ecosystem services to coastal communities. By monitoring our coral reefs, we are able to assess how the reefs are changing over time. We will be able to monitor and predict the potential impact of climate and environmental changes, as well as human activities, on coral reef health and biodiversity.
Here, we present a variety of data visualizations made using our long-term monitoring data. Use, reuse, and interpretation of this monitoring data supports the protection and understanding of Turneffe Atoll Marine Reserve, and assists with informed decision-making and management strategies for the conservation of this crucial ecosystem.
Data were collected by surveyors in collaboration with, affiliation with, or as a part of job duty for the UB-ERI and/or Turneffe Atoll Sustainability Association (TASA). Development of this web app was funded in part by the Reef Resilience Initiative (RRI).
Data surveyors and collaborators include (alphabetically):
Alexander Navarro, Allan Romero, Anthony Lizama, Bonnie Young, Celso Cawich, Daniel Mclaughlin, Eduardo Barrientos, Elias Alamina, Fara Maza, Felix Quewell, Galento Galvez, Gabriela Ugarte, Giselle Mahung, Ivanna Blanco, Ivanna Waight-Cho, Jake L. Snaddon, Jané Salazar, Javier Alegria, Jessica C. Boles, Joshua Borland, John Romero, Justine Myvett, Kevin Mendez, Kevin Novelo, Leandra Ricketts, Mauricio Barboza, Melissa Gordon, Melissa Robinson, Michelle Paddick, Moises Barrientos, Monique Lamb, Nicole Craig, Ninon Martinez, Ronny Gongora, Stavros Bardalez, Tanya Barona, Vanessa Figueroa, Victor Alamina.
RRI is a global partnership, which uses the reef resilience framework of Ecosystems, Community, and Governance, to increase the resilience of World Heritage reef sites across the world. The funding awarded to the UB-ERI alongside the Turneffe Atoll Sustainability Association (TASA) is to inplement the project ‘Strengthening coral reef resilience through science for adaptive management and stakeholder engagement, to respond to long-term threats in the Turneffe Atoll Marine Reserve.’ 
Part of this project is compiling and communicating coral reef monitoring data in a variety of formats, for key audiences. This web app is intended to communicate coral reef monitoring data to students, the general public, and curious stakeholders wish to expand their understanding of the reef, and ask/answer questions. It does not required a background in coding, data analysis, or even marine biology to use and ‘play’ with the app, encouraging inquiry around reef health.
Our data have been published open-access on Dryad data repository, for the purpose of encouraging appropriate use and reuse of the data, as well as promoting transparency. Code for this app may be found on our GitHub repository. Check the Quick Links tab for direction to these resources.
